Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLotss podcast. I'm Joe Eisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Today you are going to be uh listening
or watching a special episode of our
podcast uh recorded live at a uh
conference which you've probably never
seen before.
>> Yeah, this was at uh the Lazard for
Square conference and we interviewed
Dimmitri Chevaleno. He is the chief
business officer of Perplexity which is
something you might have used before. We
certainly use it.
>> Uh yep, one of the leading AI models.
This is a conference related to media
and dealmaking. And so we talked about
what is going to be the impact of AI on
brands, on the news and on the internet
as we know it. So uh take a listen.
>> We also took questions from the
audience. So you will hear us referring
to questions that we are receiving on
the app. Uh we hope you enjoy. Take a
listen.
>> Sorry about the music, Peter. [laughter]
>> That's right. people either love or hate
the music. Um, okay. So, just a
reminder, this is being recorded, so if
you could keep it moderately quiet, you
know, you can laugh, you can clap, do
all of that, uh, scream if you need to.
Just don't rearrange the furniture and
things like that. And also a reminder,
we're taking questions from the audience
throughout this discussion. So, if you
send them on the app, we will see them
and be able to ask Dimmitri. And
>> and if we're looking at our phones,
that's our excuse.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> And we're engaged in the question. We're
engaged in the interview.
>> All right. So, here's my first question.
Should we even be talking to you? What I
mean by that is I could just go on
Perplexity and ask all these questions
and it'll give me a pretty decent
answer. What's the point?
>> So, um first of all, thank you for
having me. It's great to be here.
the um the the I I I love that that tea
up and you guys were scheming backstage
of like what what's going to be the the
hard opening question, but I I love it
because the thing that humans will
always be uniquely exceptional at is
asking questions. Um so perplexity may
have the answer. Uh but perplexity does
not have an innate desire to be curious.
Uh and that's what you guys have and
that's why journalism is so important
and that's why having these
conversations important. It's about the
questions uh not necessarily the
answers.
>> Um kind of related to this I guess but
here's the thing that I always think
about which is I'm a I enjoy using
perplexity etc. Um let's say you know
you have great relationships with all
the news publishers etc. and they're
really cool with it all and all those
deals get solved, etc. Like, why do we
need the internet as we know it that has
things called websites built for humans?
Now that we're in this age where we can
go to a uh chatbot or something like it
and the answer is right there, do we
need to have what are traditionally
called websites anymore? Why would a
publisher continue and invest in design
and all of these things when I could
just get the answer from um Perplexity
or ChatP or wherever else? So, so again,
it goes back to I think the reason we're
drawn to media properties is because of
the questions the journalists and
editors are asking, right? It's it's not
necessarily it's the framing. It is the
what is actually worth asking about,
what's worth reading about. Perplexity
doesn't have answers to that. Uh you
have to come to perplexity already armed
with a question. uh and oftentimes
people you know read news and there's
something they didn't understand fully
and they come to perplexity to get that
deeper understanding but the spark uh
that comes from editorial judgment that
comes from the intuition of a
world-class reporter and that's why
we're excited through you know programs
like comet plus uh to to find new
business models for that. How do you
actually judge editorial judgment or
quality of news sources? Because I can
imagine a future where a lot of our news
consumption is through something like a
perplexity model, which means that
you're basically the arbiter of what
information is reliable. So, how do you
make those decisions?
>> It's it's not me at the at the at the
wheel. Um, you know, ultimately this is
where we focus uh a big part of our
technology. It's building accurate AI.
Um, the thing that we believe is that's
going to be most scarce in the future is
not intelligence, it's trust. I think
the bedrock of trust is transparency.
That's why Perplexity pioneered showing
you exactly which source the information
is coming from and empowering users to
apply their own judgment of whether that
is a good source or not so good source.
Um, but we we deploy many different
algorithmic strategies. uh often times
if many uh publications are saying the
same thing, you know, that's a strong
signal that they're on to something and
you know the outliers you're you're kind
of more uh sensitive to. Uh but this
isn't you know it's not a simple problem
and this is why you know we raise a lot
of capital and hire the world's best
technologists to build accurate AI.
>> So I think anyone could sort of
intuitively understand why publishers
might be anxious about perplexity as
being a destination. Evidently, it's not
just news publishers. Literally, when we
since we got on stage in uh three
minutes ago, news broke that Amazon
demands perplexity to stop AI from a
stop AI agent from making purchases. Um,
literally just broke three minutes ago
from Bloomberg. Uh, what is the clearly
it's not just news that's anxious about
the idea of perplexity being the
destination? Clearly, it's all kinds of
businesses. So I I think um and I
haven't read the the article yet, but it
[laughter] I uh I think I have an
understanding of the issues. Um the
ultimately the issue with uh with Amazon
is tied to Perplexity's web browser
called Comet. Um and Comet is a web
browser that has an AI assistant built
into it. And what we think is important
is that consumers and end users have
access to powerful AI when they are
accessing uh publications, accessing
websites, accessing the internet. The
the first 30 years of the internet, we
had lopsided AI where big tech, you
know, Google, Netflix, Facebook, they
used AI to control what we see, to get
us to click on certain things and not
click on other things. And what is
changing now is Perplexity is focusing
on giving powerful AI to the end user.
And we think this is the right thing to
do. We think it's a principled viewpoint
that when you're on Amazon, it's not
Amazon's business whether you're using
AI to help you evaluate, is this the
best thing to buy? You know, can I find
it cheaper somewhere else? Uh do I
actually need to buy the other thing
they're telling me to buy with it? The
world's wealthiest people, they have
personal shoppers that help them do
this. And we're democratizing that sort
of intelligence, that sort of assistant
access to everyone.
>> Just in terms of competition, is the
argument basically that technically, you
know, a Google or an Amazon could create
similar products to what you guys are
doing, but their own business model
basically prohibits them from doing what
you're doing.
>> I should have you join our next investor
pitch. Just exactly [laughter] that. Oh,
dear. it is there is a big opening for
an independent neutral AI player that is
aligned with users. Um, you know, Google
is still, you know, they're generating,
you know, 100 billion uh in revenue per
quarter, which is amazing, but a lot of
that is coming from getting uh, you
know, adver, you know, their their
customers, advertisers. You know,
Amazon, uh, they're trying to get you to
buy as many things as possible. Uh, our
success metric is, do users, are they
willing to pay for a perplexity
subscription? Um, and so we're purely
aligned with our users.
>> Um,
Speaking of competition, like what is
the differentiator? Okay, maybe Amazon
has some obvious uh angles and some of
the others. OpenAI seems sort of
independent in the same bucket. It's
really huge. It's one of the biggest
websites in the in the world. Um it
doesn't strike me many of the uh things
that they offer. Replicate seems sort of
similar to perplexity. You must get
this. I know you probably have a stock
answer to this, but what is the
differentiator between you and a and an
open AI?
>> So, you know, I I'm fortunate to get to
speak with a lot of curious people that
have to answer a lot of hard questions
every day. And they're they tell me they
use perplexity. Um, and it comes back to
we're focused on accuracy above all
else. Uh, chat GBT is an amazing
product. Uh, but they built a product
that is optimized for engagement. It's
trying to be your cheerleader, your
coach. It's trying to get you to to keep
going. And they've also built a product
that is designed not to use the best LLM
in service of your question, but it's
designed to use their LLMs. H. And so
part of being neutral, part of being
independent, trustworthy, accurate is
using the best possible technology to
answer the question the best possible
way. And so being an aggregator of all
the best models, having our own
independent search infrastructure that
isn't the Bing search API, which is what
uh chat GPT uses, those are all the
building blocks of a more useful,
accurate AI.
>> What's your actual revenue source at
this point? Because I know you're big on
subscriptions. You experimented with
ads. I think you might have paused that
at this point, but it does seem if
you're trying to be different to Google.
You probably don't want to be as ad
driven as they are.
>> Yeah. So, we're seeing tremendous
traction with both consumer
subscriptions and then companies buying
the enterprise version of Perplexity for
their employees. Um, ultimately, it's in
that enterprise context where having
accurate, useful knowledge is incredibly
valuable. And so, you know, we we've
had, you know, been fortunate with a
enterprise go to market team of of just
five people. You know, seen that
business, you know, more more than 8x
this year. Uh seeing, you know, many
multiples increase in our consumer
subscriptions. And we're excited about
building products uh that are user
aligned uh that also create marketing
value for brands and advertisers. But
this isn't going to be rebuilding
AdWords and clickbased systems. We think
it's important to create real value so
that when you're personal AI agent
powered by Perplexity is evaluating a
potential commercial opportunity,
something you might buy, imagine, you
know, alongside the answer, you get an
offer for an exclusive discount.
>> That would be something that your agent
would say, "Hey, this is even though
this someone's paying for this to show
up here, this is actually a good deal."
If it's just an ad that says click me,
click me, click me, we don't think
that's going to be sustainable and
that's not the type of marketing
products we're looking to build.
>> Can we talk a little bit about the
fundraising environment for AI? I mean,
obviously we know how crazy um, you
know, intense things are in the world.
>> Are people throwing cash at you as you
walk down the street?
>> But also, it feels like every day like I
like it used to be when I paid attention
to startups, it felt like there were
discreet rounds. There was a C, then an
A, and then a B and then maybe a C and
then an IPO. When I read it feels like
every day there is just it are are the
are the rounds blending into each other
so that it's just this sort of ongoing
stream of oh here's a new raise etc here
we got some new chips and then we are
giving them some equity etc has the has
the line between rounds is it blurring
>> yeah so before uh perplexity I mean I
spent most of my career at consumer
internet companies but I had a stint as
a founder of a robotic startup and uh AI
is definitely a different fundraising
environment than that was which was uh
very challenging. I I I think at its
core a lot of investors believe and and
we agree with this belief that uh what's
happening with AI now is as profound as
the original introduction of the
internet. And so there there
>> are going to be a wave of new
generational companies that are being
built right now. Uh and you know a lot
of the value is actually uh you know
compounding while these companies are
privately held. uh and so that that is
you know that there there's a lot of
conviction uh by by private investors in
that um I I think a second piece is that
investors themselves are power users of
products like perplexity uh they are
people that have a lot of questions do a
lot of research and so they have not
just an abstract understanding of a
balance sheet they have their own
intuition you know which is very
different than like B2B SAS where it's
like you know you have to go do 30
customer interviews and you're you're
kind of getting all the second order
information. You know, with Perplexity,
use it yourself.
>> You you understand the value, the time
that you just saved, the creative
expansion you just had and and that
gives investors conviction. Um and so
that that is, you know, fueling this
environment. Uh is it at times, you
know, too frothy? Sure. Uh you know, are
there going to be some investors that
that make the wrong bets? Uh absolutely.
But the core human need of getting good
answers to good questions, you know, we
we think that is boundless. Um, and and
so we're we're we're confident in in the
path ahead.
>> Well, speaking of froth, is there anyone
you turn away in terms of being an
investor?
>> Yeah. So, there's this phenomenon uh
that that tends to happen in in bubbly
periods of uh multi-layered SPVS. Um, so
SPVS are special purpose vehicles. And
so you basically have many layers of
outsource fundraising where you have,
you know, principal agent misalignment
where the fundraiser is not making money
off the investment, they're just making
money off the management fee. And so we
often get approach uh from players in
that space. And we, you know, as
whenever we can detect that's what it
is, we we avoid taking on funds like
that because we want investors uh who
are getting direct access to Perplexity
and who are in it for the long haul, who
aren't just trying to make a quick buck
on on a management fee flip.
>> I am I want to talk about this more. I'm
really fascinated. We actually we did an
episode um with Vlad Tennov, the Robin
Hood CEO, and he was talking about
tokenization of private assets. And I
guess this sort of actually relates to
the question about discreet rounds, but
does it feel like, you know, in theory
if some sort of slice of equity uh
perplexing maybe people sell forwards or
these vehicles that are linked to it,
does it feel like the line between what
it even means to be a private and a
public company is inevitably going to
disappear? especially add in the fact
that we seem to be on this road where
public companies will not be expected or
required to have to report information
um as timely as they used to.
>> I I think it's important when you're a
privately held company to control the
sale of your equity. And I think that
the challenge, you know, why we haven't,
you know, we've been approached by a lot
of these tokenization schemes and, you
know, again, if if you have folks on
your cap table that are not aligned for
the long term, they may be looking for
quick flips and then that creates a
weird signal in the market and that may
harm, you know, a primary raise, right?
And so the the noise that comes with
that liquid, it's not like we're short
on other, you know, investment, you
know, avenues. Uh so it's just an
unnecessary kind of noise risk.
>> So uh speaking of throwing money around,
the $35 billion bid for Chrome was what
was that? Was that a troll?
>> [laughter]
>> Um
we that was when we made that bid the
DOJ had still not decided uh whether
Chrome would be divested uh from Google.
Uh the web browser as evidenced by you
know Amazon's uh behavior is clearly
incredibly valuable surface area and
that you know 35 billion was a starting
bid. Uh you know at this point I can
safely say I think Chrome is worth more
than that. uh but what what I can uh
confidently say is we had more than 35
billion of investor interests in making
that bid. So it was not a uh constraint
on you know the funding side. Obviously
Google does not want to sell Chrome
unless they'll be forced to and it
doesn't look like the government will be
forcing them.
>> So you're serious about that one. It's
not just a sort of antitrust flag waving
exercise. No, we had, you know, very
large sovereign wealth funds that, you
know, were were kind of lined up and
ready to go.
>> Here's a great question from uh someone
anonymous via the app. Um, can you talk
about unit margins? Um, you often hear
this. It's like, oh, these AI companies,
they're not even on a unit basis making
money given the compute costs, etc. are
what can you talk about gross margins
and right now whether like you know a
given query is profitable given the cost
of delivering
>> um so the
uh a paying pro-subscriber to perplexity
is profitable for us
>> okay
>> so the unit margins are strong uh the
you know free users right now because we
do not monetize them uh you know we
don't uh you know we lose money on those
AI companies, I think something that is
underappreciated, they generally
actually when they do the accounting,
yeah, of free users, they attribute that
to research and development because
you're still using those prompts to
improve and train your system.
>> Um, so, you know, it does allow for your
unit economics to potentially appear
more pristine than they are.
>> Are all prousers profitable? Because
this also strikes me as something unique
with AI, which is that, you know, when
back when Twitter was in its infancy,
power users were good. It feels like in
the case with AI, sometimes you get
these power users where you're losing
money on them. Are all pro users
profitable or do some use it so much
that it's more than the subscription
fee?
>> I mean, I I I don't it's not a material
amount. And we've also introduced a max
tier. Uh so we have a $20 a month Pro
subscription. And for the folks that
want, you know, the most expensive
reasoning models and and higher limits
on them, there's a $200 a month product
called Max and that also gets you access
to our email assistant. And so I think
you'll, you know, and other companies
have also introduced kind of higher
tiers of subscription. So this is not a
problem that's unique necessary to AI
and and you kind of introduce tiers of
service uh to to support it at scale.
>> What does your expenditure actually look
like at this point? like what are you
spending the most money on? Is it we
read about these insane salaries for
engineers going to claude or open AAI or
whatever. Is it talent retention or is
it compute power? Is it the content
deals with media organizations? What are
you spending on?
>> So the the biggest expense is inference,
right? So it is the the cost of compute
uh when you're you're asking a question
and and running uh it through an LM you
know that that is uh that is a material
expenditure. Uh we you know perplexity
doesn't do pre-training um so the sorts
of AI PhDs that other companies are you
know paying you know uh reported
hundreds of millions of for
that that's not we're not in the market
for that. We have incredible AI
application engineers and that's that's
what we recruit for. Uh ultimately
engineers that are joining Perplexity
are joining because they believe we're
just getting started, right? And they're
coming for an equity appreciation story.
Uh that's, you know, already bearing
fruit. Uh but we're we're just at the
beginning of that journey.
>> Maybe this is sort of a way of restating
Tracy's question, but it all feel like
any AI conversation, it's like what is
the bottleneck right now, right? Is it
talent? Is it capital? Is it compute? Is
it power? Etc. Like if you could have
unlimited amounts of any one of those
things, what would you want more of
right now?
>> So I think it's important to bifurcate.
There's the companies that do the
training of foundation models and those
are the ones that are really pushing for
the massive infrastructure buildouts. uh
we're not constrained on compute for
inference okay um at the current usage
levels but as you know behavior shift I
mean by a show of hands in the room like
how many people have stopped primarily
using Google when they have
anformational question
so you know about what 80% of the room
you know uh raised their hands and we
see the early adopter behavior in you
know audiences like this you know folks
that work in financial services people
that again for for whom quickly getting
high quality information matters. As you
know this behavior becomes more
mainstream that we obviously will need
more compute for inference. Um but the
the folks that are are kind of talking
about trillions of dollars in
investment. Um it's it's really a
different universe than ours. Uh I it's
unclear to me why some of those
investments are needed. Sometimes it
feels like a strategy of, you know, kind
of what what the US was trying to do
with the Soviet Union of just getting
your your competitors to uh go broke uh
by, you know, being able to raise the
most capital and we we'll see how that
plays out.
>> Since you mentioned financial services,
we have a good question from the
audience. Uh we've done some media naval
gazing. I'm sure we're going to do some
more, but for now, financial services
naval gazing. What do you think the
impact of AI will be on places like
Lazard and other Wall Street firms?
>> I I just think this is going to be a
incredible flowering of creativity and
productivity lift. Um I I think of using
a product like Perplexity and other AI
tools in in the day-to-day of of
somebody that works in investment bank
is really twofold. Uh the first is
saving you 80% of the time uh to get to
the 80% first draft of a work product,
right? In investment banks, that that's
kind of putting together pitch decks, uh
doing modeling, uh just gaining
tremendous efficiency. And it's not it's
important to distinguish. It's not about
making that workflow autonomous. You
still absolutely need human judgment on
you know what the end output should be,
how to approach it. This is this is not
about replacing investment bankers. It's
about giving them tremendous leverage. I
think the more disruptive impact is now
that it got a lot easier to begin a new
initiative, to begin a new prospect, how
many more new engagements are you going
to be able to spin up, right? Because
the biggest constraint on new business
is an employee feeling they have the
bandwidth to take it on. And and you
know, experienced leaders now have much
more leverage. And I think that's going
to play a profound role at Lazard. Um,
and you know, part of why I'm excited to
be part of the organization.
>> I love these audience questions because
they're uh saying things that I would
think that reminded me and that I would
have been rude to say you didn't answer
the first question about are you going
to kill journalism? But someone says,
"You didn't answer the first question.
How will journalism survive when AI has
skinned it?" I get oh yeah, you know, AI
isn't interested in asking questions,
but it's not. The question is like why
would brands continue to like build out
these presence for like a human reading
and scrolling when I can just go to one
destination that doesn't necessarily
click me anywhere else?
>> Well, I mean when I look at the earnings
numbers for the Wall Street Journal, the
New York Times for Bloomberg,
>> media companies seem to be doing fine. I
>> well New York Times is doing well for
games and I don't know if you get
earnings numbers for
>> but what I what I hear you know like
from subscription numbers but the
>> by the way is doing a lot more than
games. I actually did not they're it's a
very impressive company but by and large
I it does not look like the actual news
business
>> is doing particularly well.
>> Well, but I I think it's it's part of of
the the value of the bundle. I mean to
me this is very this is very analogous
to when the internet was first
introduced. You had traditional
brick-and-mortar retailers and the best
brick-and-mortar retailers adapted to
the digital environment and the best
publishers are adapting and gaining
leverage uh with AI. I mean, last night
we had uh the CEO uh of Axel Springer uh
talk about how he's leaning into AI and
it's actually an incredible opportunity
for productivity. And so, I I don't
think this is zero sum. I I do think
there's going to be some publishers that
thrive and others uh and the media
business is already facing challenges,
you know, certain segments of it well
before AI. So I I I don't see this as
being kind of the fundamental tension.
>> But if you fast forward five or 10 years
from now, what is the front page of the
internet actually look like to you? And
what exactly is I I guess the economic
pact between media and platforms such as
yourself? What would the ideal pact or
agreement actually look like? Like how
basically give give me your vision of
the internet in five years.
We uh two seconds we're introducing
something called Comet Plus uh which uh
we already have the Washington Post and
Nast LA Times many great publishers
signed on for and it was really inspired
by Apple News Plus uh where if you are a
Comet plus subscriber which is $5 a
month and we bundle it into Perplexity
Pro. So even people that didn't
necessarily, you know, want to pay for
it, we're we're taking money out of our
uh cut and and feeding it into this
program to seed it. Uh as you consume
premium content in the Comet browser,
we're then sharing that revenue back
proportionally with publishers. And it's
actually accounting for not just page
views of premium content, but agent
actions on that content and citations in
the comic browser. And and so ultimately
I think subscriptions are a very
powerful business model for media. Uh I
think there's a lot more to do there and
and we want to play a leading role in
doing that.
>> I'm very impressed by the uh the finance
uh module within perplexity. You know
there's a whole graveyard of companies
that have tried to take down our uh our
employer at uh at Bloomberg.
Do you see yourself as a potential
challenger company? Tracy asked about um
you know financial services etc. Do you
see yourself at some point down the road
as a challenger to the terminal?
>> Yeah. I mean how how many people have
access to Bloomberg terminal? It's like
I mean you guys like it's not it's not
millions, right? So yeah, it's not
millions. So for for us the success of
perplexity finance is it's similar to
what I was saying about with Amazon and
people that have personal shoppers like
Bloomberg terminal is that like it's
this is like
>> we know it's very lucrative and we know
very big company and so when you
thinking about the Lazards of the world
and all the other banks could you at
some point see yourself pitching
perplexity or perplexity terminal as
where all these other ones had failed to
do it? I I think for us the bigger
opportunity offended true the bigger
opportunity is not to go after Bloomberg
terminal it's giving everyone who can't
afford Bloomberg terminal a version of
it that is useful for them and when
they're making retail stock investment
decisions when they're understanding the
interplay of the markets and the news
cycle that they have access to powerful
technology right so it's not I I I don't
think we can't like Bloomberg terminal
like people are there for the chatting
like there's all kinds of features there
that we're not trying to replace. Thank
you. And uh it's an amazing product and
an amazing brand.
>> I think it's for us this is about
democratizing expanding the scope of who
has access to premium financial
intelligence.
>> Uh another question from the audience.
This one's from Olivia Chastan. Uh what
do you think will be the key skill sets
for media entertainment executives to
manage the impact of AI on content
industries?
I mean, I I I think uh my answer to this
is the answer I think it's the key skill
set for any professional in the age of
AI is you have to get really good at
asking the right questions. Um and so
that means asking your teams why are
they working on what they're working on?
What's the leverage? What's the unique
differentiation? And so it is
approaching their business with a
profound curiosity
and an understanding that you know there
are new disruption and and leverage
opportunities and to kind of lead with
that curiosity.
>> Everyone always says that but what does
a good prompt actually look like to you?
Can you give us a specific example of
like a prompt that really impressed you?
I I I think to to me asking a good
question it's like a level deeper than
like the prompt engineering is is kind
of that that in some ways will get
abstracted very soon. uh when I say
asking good question it means a question
that embodies and embeds all the known
knowledge on a given topic and the
question you're asking is then you know
where where do you push the frontier
like what is what is the the thing that
is not yet knowable that in your
question you're pushing your
organization on
>> you know going back to uh the browser
question about the bid for Chrome Google
itself earlier this year there were a
lot of people like oh Google's going to
get disrupted by AI. It's a classic
innovators dilemma. They invented all
this tech and they're not making now the
stock market views Google's done
phenomenally or alphabet. They've done
phenomenally well and a lot of people
have really changed their tune on them.
If the browser is such an important part
of the real estate here, does that just
give them a massive leg up? I mean, I
know you're going to launch have your
own and OpenAI is going to have its own,
but Chrome is everywhere. Like how that
sounds like a very big mode. it it's a
very powerful distribution leverage
point. Uh but their greatest strength is
is also a weakness in that they they
built it around a adword system where
they're reliant on people clicking on
links. Uh and the behavior of clicking
on promoted links will just matter less
in the future of the internet than it
has in the past. Speaking of promoted
links, this is another question I've
been wondering about. Sometimes I see
these companies and they advertise on
LinkedIn and they offer what I think is
sort of would be the equivalent of like
the AI equivalent of SEO. Is that all
snake oil? Is there like what is does
that exist? Can are there these games
that publishers or any brands can play
to do well in AI? Are they is that sort
of a fraud?
>> I I don't want to call it a fraud. I
have not uh uncovered
uh those companies provide analytics but
they are not actionable. Okay.
And so I I have not found an actionable
output there. And in some ways our
purpose is to prevent those insights
from being actionable because if you can
game a perplexity answer, it means it's
not accurate and trustworthy. And so you
know if if if they do find a hack like
we have better engineers that will uh
fill that hack.
I have a slightly philosophical
question, but is there any way to inject
a tiny bit of randomness or creativity
in some of uh Perplexity's output? And
what I mean by that is I think at this
point we're all aware of um algorithmic
content uh moderation and the idea that
>> if you start your Netflix account and
you watch one romantic comedy for the
rest of your life, Netflix is going to
be throwing like Matthew McConna films
at you forever and ever and ever. How do
you deal with that aspect of it? The the
risk that people are funneled into like
one particular answer stream or one
corner of the internet.
>> So memory will be an important feature
of products like perplexity. Um and the
way we avoid that trap is transparency
just like we do with sources where we
actually show you all of the things that
we've added to your memory. And if you
don't want to be pigeonholed as a
romantic comedy lover, you just delete
that memory. And I mean, I I'm kind of
uh I recently got into health
supplements. And now every time I ask
about health supplements, my decision to
begin, you know, pomegranate supplements
is is getting mentioned the answer.
Yeah. And and I uh you know, I deleted
that because I'm like, you know what, I
don't want it like coming back to the
pomegranates uh as great as they are.
and and that was you know that that I
just went and deleted that memory. I saw
where it was and you know uh I'm
pomegranate free in my answers.
Um
um there's a question here about let's
see but the comparison to the first wave
of the internet so this person is
talking about content creation AI agent
studios pace of change moving very fast
I mean is decision you what's really
extraordinary to me about the last
several years is the speed with which we
seem to get new paradigms right blogs
were one were going to be a big deal
that was 20 years ago they had a
lifespan of a few years then you know
social media Twitter etc their speed.
How do you think about um things get uh
overturned so fast these days? How do
you think about making investment
decisions under such conditions of
uncertainty?
>> Yeah, this is uh I mean a funny time to
to drop his name, but this is where we
love the Jeff Bezos line of you know
it's the the hard thing to predict is
not what's going to change, but what's
going to remain the same. Um I think
from our vantage point the bedrock is
accuracy and trust, right? and and
that's actually as intelligence gets
much more powerful uh it it's gets more
powerful at manipulating us and so that
that's why kind of that trust bedrock uh
is is paramount um that said
one of my you know management uh mantras
is that I have absolute conviction that
six months from now I'm going to have a
top three priority that today I don't
know what it is and that embedded in
that is an understanding that even the
model makers themselves when they
release a new model
>> until it's out they don't know what
emergent capabilities and what the
useful applications of that will be.
>> Yeah.
>> And so kind of you know having core
foundational principles while at the
same time preserving agility and adapt
adaptability and being the best at
applying the new gifts we get uh for the
service of users that that's going to be
a key operating skill. Uh there's a
second part of that audience question
that Joe just asked and I think it's
it's probably the one that's on all of
our minds and it's the bluntest one, but
is is AI in a bubble?
>> Uh there are certainly parts of it that
that are
>> not you obviously, but your competitors
presumably. I I mean I I think of all of
the time and leverage that professionals
and knowledge workers are getting and I
I I to me the ROI on that like I can see
the trillions of dollars in economic
productivity happening from it. Uh but
are there certain companies that have
just raised too much capital and is
going to create uh imbalances in the
ecosystem? Yes.
>> All right. But we only have 45 seconds.
My issue is a lot of things still don't
work in AI. I tried to ask uh Chad GPT
yesterday how many full school weeks
there are in New York City public
schools. I was like, "Oh, I'd have to
count it by hand." And no, it seriously
said that. I posted a screenshot of it.
A lot of these agent things like they
don't work very well. Like much a lot of
things. I once asked who are the most
common guests on OddLots over the years.
It just gave me a bunch of This was This
was not your site, but I'm just saying
like a lot of AI agents and so forth,
they sort of crap out halfway through
for
>> I'm tempted to do a live check of
whether Perplexity would give you a good
answer on that, but uh the um
this goes back to what I was saying
about emergent capabilities. The the
fail case, and this comes up actually in
many enterprise conversations, is just
because you tried something two months
ago, Yeah. It doesn't mean and it didn't
work. It doesn't mean it's not working
today. And so we all need to keep this
open mind that these technologies are
getting smarter and better uh at a rapid
clip and you know those are solvable
problems.
>> All right, Dimmitri, thank you so much
for everyone conversation. Really
appreciate it.
>> That was our conversation with Dimmitri
Chevaleno of Perplexity.
>> Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> All right. This has been another episode
of the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway
>> and I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Dmitri Chevaleno. He's at Dmitri 140.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
Carmen Armen Dasho Bennett at Dashbot
and Kellbrooks at Kellbrooks.
>> And for more OddLotss content, you can
find our daily newsletter that is over
at bloomberg.com/odotss.
>> And you can join fellow listeners in
conversation on our Discord,
discord.gg/odotss.
And if you enjoyed the conversation,
then please like this video, leave a
comment, or better yet, subscribe.
>> Thanks for watching.
>> [music]